# dotfiles

My personal dotfiles for both nixos and normal linux.

Nixos is configured for the user `dennis`.

## Requirements

> This can be skipped if you are using nixos

The list is using package names used by NixOS. \
If your system is using a different name but you are not sure which, you can find
the Homepages of the packages below on [this site](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=25.05).

- for the alacritty stuff
    - alacritty
- for the git stuff
    - git
    - gnupg
- for the bash stuff
    - starship
    - direnv
    - (optional) nix-direnv
    - eza
- for the neovim stuff (this is just a guideline / the stuff I install globally)
    - neovim (nightly)
    - ripgrep
    - fd
    - gcc
    - nodejs_24
    - tree-sitter
    - wl-clipboard
    - extra formatter
        - python313Packages.black
        - python313Packages.isort
        - python313Packages.docformatter
        - stylua
    - lsp
        - bash-language-server
        - cmake-language-server
        - vscode-langservers-extracted
        - htmx-lsp
        - lua-language-server
        - nixd

## Installation

> To execute this script you **have to be in the same directory** as the script.

Before running the script, note that it will DELETE your `/etc/nixos/` and
`~/.config/[folder matching the one in this repos config/ dir]/` files. Therefore,
back up your files!

The deletion of your files is required in order to create symlinks to this repos
files.

The script will also add some lines to your bashrc.

Run the install.sh script:

```bash
./install.sh
```

## Uninstall the dotfiles

> To execute this script you **have to be in the same directory** as the script.

Once you have run the install script, an uninstall script will be generated to
`./uninstall.sh`

To remove all symlinks generated by `install.sh` run the following command:

```bash
./uninstall.sh
```
